Last season on Criminal
Minds: Evolution...
LEWIS: We are pursuing the leader
of a network of serial killers.
PRENTISS: The unsub. Elias
Voit. gathered followers
that he's now activating.
This is a network.
GARCIA: What is this
I'm hearing about
a certain résumé being submitted
by a certain
someone to Quantico?
I've given HR my résumé.
They haven't said yes yet.
- but...
- They're gonna say yes.
How long has this been going on?
A couple weeks.
We. you know. we decided that
we're more miserable
apart than together.
MADISON: The DOJ is prepared
- to offer you a deal.
- JJ: He can do that?
Just agree to work
with a prolific killer?
The BAU will work
with Elias Voit.
- We will not.
- Oh. you most certainly will.
PRENTISS: We will not
rely on help from
a serial killer.
We'll cooperate.
Director Madison is honoring
Voit's plea agreement.
Which means he is
going to be transferred
to FCI Collymore.
a minimum-security
federal prison.
Isn't it weird to anyone
else that Voit wants
to be in general population?
You're Elias Voit. aren't you?
Nah. uh. Lee Duval.
You got the wrong guy.
No. you're Voit.
(grunting)
♪ ♪
(soft clattering)
MAN: Come on. seriously?
MAN 2: Dude. I'm being
completely serious.
MAN: Well. what are we gonna
do? We can't make that deadline.
MAN 2: We need to have
an answer by tomorrow.
MAN: Fine. we'll
figure it out tomorrow.
- Good night.
(car alarm chirps)
UNSUB: Excuse me.
- (car door closes)
- I'm. like. totally lost.
And I'm trying to
find Bethany Beach.
Am I-am I close?
You're asking the wrong
guy. I'm new here.
Yeah. me. too. Google
Maps was working great
and then I just. like.
lost all my bars.
You know what I mean? When you
have service and then. uhp.
- no. you don't.
- Yeah. I-I know what you mean.
I've got two bars.
If you give me the address.
I can look it up for you.
Yeah. it's. uh. one. one.
four. zero.
(grunts. coughing)
(thud)
(soft grunting)
Wha... (grunts)
(indistinct radio chatter)
OFFICER: Dispatch. we
got a possible 10-14.
Stopping to investigate. Over.
(dispatch responding
indistinctly)
Hey. Buddy.
You okay?
(mumbling)
No.
How much you take tonight. huh?
You need an ambulance?
- (mumbles)
- UNSUB: Officer. can I...
- can I talk to you for a second?
- Help me.
Help.
(mumbling continues)
It's. uh.
it's my big brother.
He's-he's. uh.
he's a junkie. I-I don't
really know how much he took.
but it's pretty tough
on my mom and dad.
They don't know.
It looks like he just
fell on his face.
You know? This is where he
comes to get his shit. I think.
but I-I don't really know.
I-I just kind of
want to get him home.
No. No.
Hey. look who's back.
You almost died tonight. pal.
Get home safe.
Help. Help.
Do you like the water?
(engine starts)
("Life I Know" by
Creature Crayon playing)
(indistinct chatter)
(laughing)
♪ Living the life I know ♪
♪ Watching the sun set... ♪
- MAN: Oh. man. She is so thirsty.
- (Gunfire on video)
I bet if we posted something
like that. it would go viral.
We should totally do that.
NARRATOR (on video): Bull sharks can
live in both salt and fresh water.
MAN: Hey. check it.
bruv. Look at this one.
- NARRATOR: Crustaceans. marine
mammals. birds. - (sighs)
turtles. anything that...
(indistinct chatter continuing)
MAN: I hate this so much.
This is so annoying.
WOMAN: I need another drink.
♪ Spinning around got me... ♪
(sighs)
Where are we going?
I'm going swimming. Dumbass.
Hold up. I'll come. too.
I didn't invite you.
What. you gonna go
swimming all by yourself?
Seems to me you
need a lifeguard.
and I volunteer as tribute.
(sighs)
How many beers have
you had tonight?
- What?
- How many beers?
- I don't know.
- I do.
- Six.
- You counted?
- Yeah.
- Why?
Because I'm a woman
at a party by herself.
- That's why.
- I'm not drunk.
(scoffs) That's debatable.
What isn't is that you've been
hitting your vape pen all night.
Which means. A. you smell like
a concentrated Hello Kitty.
and. B. you do not
have the lung capacity
to keep up with me.
Well. you know what I think?
I think you're a stuck-up
bitch who thinks she's better
- than everyone else.
- Not everyone. Just you.
So do me a favor. Fuck off.
- Wait. W-W...
- Bitch. I know MMA.
No. look.
Oh. my God.
- (indistinct chatter)
- (siren wailing in distance)
You didn't notice anything
wrong until you got down here?
No. I had to keep my eye
- on Prince Charming over there.
- (retches)
Look. do you need me
for anything else?
- Can I go?
- You can. but don't leave town.
We haven't had a case like this
round these parts in ten years.
ROSSI: Actually. Sheriff.
this might not be
your case at all.
- Who are you?
- SSAs Prentiss.
Rossi and Jareau.
Behavioral Analysis
Unit of the FBI.
FBI? What's the
FBI doing here?
Seeing if a signature on
this body matches four others
that have washed up on beaches
across the Eastern Seaboard.
- What signature?
- Let us check and we'll tell you.
You see it?
Yeah. I see it.
It's him.
Wait. who's him?
The unknown subject. or unsub.
He punctures holes up and
down his victims' rib cage.
Why?
JJ: It speaks to cause
and manner of death.
which helps establish
a signature.
In this case. to ensure
the body fills with
salt water and it sinks.
And you think my dead guy
is part of your
serial investigation?
We do now.
Can you stop him?
♪ ♪
PRENTISS: "All water
has a perfect memory
and is forever trying to
get back to where it was."
Toni Morrison.
(elevator bell dings)
(indistinct chatter)
ALVEZ: All right. trainee.
you're in the hot seat.
Practice round.
Present the case.
Five bodies so far.
connected via stab
wounds to the chest.
So stabbing is his paraphilia?
No. it is a forensic
countermeasure.
Hmm. What makes it
a countermeasure?
The Gulf Stream and
marine life predation.
They make victimology
and trace evidence
almost impossible to discern.
We haven't even identified
two of the victims yet.
Until we do. forget about
an accurate timeline.
All right. One last question.
Are you kidding me with that?
(soft laughter)
Ooh. So cute.
They still make you
carry a fake gun?
Just until I
complete my training.
So I can get used to the weight
of the service weapon on my hip.
Until then. I get by with this.
It's not quite the
same thing. but
I'd rather have it and
not need it than need it
- and not have it. you know?
- That's nice.
You get your field
office assignment yet?
It's happening this week.
JJ: Oh. Any requests?
Number one is D.C. to be
close to you guys. of course.
And. uh. number two
is anywhere but
Anchorage. Alaska.
Not a fan of the snow. huh?
Not a fan of five
and a half hours
of sunlight during the winter.
(sighs)
Again?
Sixth time in six months.
Geez. OPR just won't give up.
Yeah. Second practice round.
What does OPR stand for?
Office of Professional
Responsibility.
aka the FBI's Internal Affairs.
How long are they gonna
keep questioning Rossi?
Till they get the
answers they want.
All right. We're on the record.
Agent Beatriz Carr
with Supervisory Special
Agent David Rossi.
How are you today. Agent Rossi?
Peachy.
My office has some
additional questions
regarding the
assault on Elias Voit
at Collymore prison.
My answer is as it
has always been.
I don't know how it happened.
I played no role
in it happening.
Yes.
You've been
remarkably... consistent.
Just to review. FCI Collymore is
a minimum security prison.
Filled with low-level offenders.
Oh. and Elias Voit.
Yes. And Elias Voit.
Who was attacked by two
cannabis distributors
who made the mistake of crossing
- state lines.
- So. what's your question?
I just came into receipt
of a conversation Mr. Voit had
before his transfer.
At the time. his
lawyer was present.
so the cameras were off.
But once the FBI
entered his cell.
privilege no longer applied.
What do you mean.
once the FBI entered?
For the record. I am now playing
exhibit 2233 for Agent Rossi.
The guards were
rebooting the system
when you entered.
The microphones turned
on before the cameras.
so all we have is audio.
ROSSI: I know you think you
could Houdini out of Collymore.
but gen pop is no place
for a serial killer.
Dahmer. Kibbe.
Harvey.
All of them died at the
hands of other prisoners.
Because you build prison cred
by spilling blood like yours.
Can you explain this?
I don't need to.
You told Voit exactly
what would happen to him.
That's not suspicious at all?
No. It's my job.
To predict antisocial behavior.
Uh-huh.
And can you provide any evidence
that you weren't responsible
- for the attack on Voit?
- I can't prove a negative.
For the sake of your career.
I suggest you try.
If I wanted Elias Voit dead.
he would be dead.
Oh. and he's not dead. is he?
(monitor beeping steadily)
(door opens)
- Oh.
- (indistinct announcement over P.A.)
You're here again?
- (door closes)
- Yeah.
I can't help it.
It's so weird. He's so...
non-psychopathic.
You know. sometimes he
makes little puppy noises.
Like... (whimpering)
Like that.
Any update?
No. I mean...
This is what he was like
when they brought him in.
He could wake up
tomorrow or never again.
His last MRI
indicated traumatic brain
injury to his prefrontal
and occipital lobes.
- But that's not the weird part.
- Oh.
It never is with him. is it?
Voit has complex
cerebral scarring.
some of the damage
goes back decades.
His brain looks more
like a retired linebacker
than an average 40-year-old man.
Oh. uh. be careful.
Only one of his arms is cuffed.
No. it's okay.
I-I supervised
this myself. Watch.
(alarm beeping)
Just a drill. thank you.
So... I know why I'm here.
(door closes)
- Why are you?
- Voit's attending
got the final incident
report from Collymore.
I asked for a copy
in the case it could get
Rossi out of hot water.
(gasps) Man. you
are in a coma.
and you're still all
up in Rossi's business.
PRENTISS: I can't figure out
how Voit is still alive.
There were no cameras
in the laundry room.
But according to the report.
he was stabbed three times.
turned around. got the shank out
of his attackers' hands.
killed them and then collapsed.
That must have been
one hell of a fight.
Yeah.
So. how did he do it?
(scoffs)
Mother...
- What...
- Ooh. I recognize that tone.
Either your husband or
your kids did something
to get under your skin.
In the ballpark.
Will's mom is flying in
for Michael's birthday.
Last time she did that.
she decided to
surprise all of us
when she got Michael a hamster.
(chuckles)
Honestly. I would
trade with you.
- Why? What's up?
- My dad wants
to meet Rebecca so he can...
and this is a direct quote...
"size her up."
Mm. Okay.
Different generation.
Probably doesn't approve.
Yeah. but not in the
way that you think.
I mean. I was married
to a white guy before.
which he wasn't crazy about.
and now I'm getting
serious with a woman.
And he's convinced
that it's his parenting
that's resulted in my
choice of partners.
Yeah. well. we know
that's not true.
Eh...
Good news on our
ocean drownings.
Locals just made a positive ID
on the most recent victim.
Guy's name is David Hartle.
How'd Ocean City
ping him so fast?
Sheer luck.
Cold front changed the
currents on the unsub.
So Hartle washed up
quicker than the others.
Fingers crossed.
there's a clue on him
that wasn't washed away
or eaten by fish.
Do we have the ME report here?
- Yeah. just came in.
- Oh. great.
Guy had aerosolized
fentanyl in his lungs.
GREEN: Not enough
for an overdose.
But enough to knock
him out temporarily.
And check this out.
There was brown residue
found on his teeth.
The ME identified it
as swimmer's calculus.
Okay. this has to do with
the pH of the water. right?
Yeah.
Ocean water pH is about 8.1.
The more alkaline the
water. the higher the pH.
the more it stains the teeth.
The most common cause of this
kind of swimmer's calculus is...
- Chlorine.
- Bingo.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
You're telling us
that David Hartle
drowned in a pool
and not the ocean?
According to those
dental records. yeah.
The ME couldn't
believe it either.
Okay. so he's not stabbing
his victims in the chest
- as a countermeasure.
- Are you sure?
He needs to make
sure the bodies sink.
- Isn't that still a countermeasure?
- ALVEZ: Yeah.
But it's a misdirect.
He wants us to look in the ocean
- but he doesn't kill there.
- LEWIS: No. of course not.
Plus the ocean's...
it's too chaotic.
I mean. it would have to be
an environment that he
had complete control.
One where he could extend the
torture for as long as he wants.
(scoffs) He's drowning them
in his own backyard.
- (water sloshing)
- (man gasping. gurgling)
I can't... (coughs)
Please...
I'm so tired.
I can't...
♪ ♪
No. I'm not doing that.
Ugh. Dave. come on.
- Emily. no.
- (door closes)
Why not?
What good will it do?
This is the incident report
from the laundry
room at Collymore.
Don't you think we
should review it?
I did. I read it. You read it.
There's nothing in
there that proves
that I didn't have Voit shanked.
But the Bureau of Prisons
investigative unit isn't us.
Maybe if we put
our heads together
we can see something
they missed.
Uh... no.
Why not?
Listen.
Ever since Voit's
been in a coma.
I stopped seeing him. I
stopped talking to him.
I don't want to do anything
that might make that happen.
Again.
Okay. Then don't talk to him.
Talk to me.
We have worked too hard
to let Voit take
your job away now.
When you first looked
at the report...
...what did you notice?
ROSSI: Bleach.
Me too. It was found on
one of the attackers.
So Voit got a shot in.
(grunting)
Yeah. but it didn't help.
They still overpowered him.
(grunts)
What was the second thing?
ROSSI: Cleaning supplies.
They fell off the
closet onto the floor.
But some of the
contents fell as far
as five feet away.
Now that wouldn't
happen from a simple
collision with the closet.
There too much
velocity involved.
Yeah. that happened because...
He was r-reaching
for something in there...
...that he'd hidden.
FBOP didn't find anything.
Huh.
How deep were the
shank wounds on Voit?
About one inch.
And how about his attackers?
Six inches.
That seems a little
strange. doesn't it?
The investigators theorized that
Voit was fighting for his life.
So he didn't just stab them. he
drove the shank in
as deep as he could.
And are you buying what
they're selling you?
They had no other
conclusions to draw.
No evidence. no proof.
Yeah. but we both know Voit.
Are you buying it?
It would only make sense
if Voit had another weapon.
Ah.
- Hmm.
- What?
I need to get into
that laundry room.
Can you make that happen?
I guess. Why?
You just make it happen.
(door opens)
LEWIS: Here's the thing.
If these victims are
drowning in a pool...
I mean. long enough for
their teeth to stain brown...
it means they're
treading for hours.
Yeah. so the pool has to be deep
enough that they can't touch.
That means it's
probably custom-built.
Seven feet all around.
He gets off on watching
them get tired.
Slowly succumb. and then...
he feels this power in
choosing not to save them.
Like a submersion or
asphyxiation fetish.
Yeah. but with no
consistent victimology.
You know. I might be wrong. but
this doesn't read as sexual.
It's more like
he's trying to work
something out
through his victims.
Well. aquaphobia is
incredibly common.
Something like 46% of
Americans fear deep water
in pools. and 64% of them
fear open water. so...
So what you're saying is
something drowning-related
happened to this guy and
now he's revisiting it
on everyone he kidnaps?
JJ: Yeah. possibly.
I mean. we've...
we've seen weirder.
- Yeah.
- GARCIA: Yo! Yo. yo. yo!
Over here!
- Ah. right on cue.
- GARCIA: Yo!
Come! Friendships come!
Okay. it's not
demure or mindful.
but. yo. this is nuts.
This is like. uh. the
mammals with the teeth...
Like Chip and Dale nuts. like.
"how much water does it take
- to make pistachios" nuts.
- LEWIS: Penelope.
- What did you find?
- Firstly.
possible victim Chet Williams
has been reported missing.
Fan of the Delaware surf.
That's where he was last seen.
However but also: the
identified victims and Chet
all recently visited. according
to their search history.
AirBeachAndBed.com.
All of them. What do
you make of it. huh?
I don't get it. The victims
were all looking for
vacation rentals?
Beach rentals. specifically.
But how would he get
ahold of that information?
Does he work there?
LEWIS: Well. he
wouldn't have to.
I mean. user information
gets sold all the time
to data brokers. credit
card companies. marketers.
So. one of these companies
could be hiding our unsub.
Then we shouldn't deliver
this profile to the police.
We need to talk to
whoever runs this website.
JJ: And tell them their users
are targets of a serial killer?
They won't admit to anything.
They can't without
risking liability.
ALVEZ: They don't have to.
Maybe delivering the
profile could be enough.
Uh-huh.
Hey. it's me.
I need your help with something.
Thank you for coming.
On behalf of the
Department of Justice.
we appreciate you agreeing
to assist us in this matter.
We also appreciate
that. as lobbyists
for a rental property website.
- you have all signed NDAs.
- Then you know
that's gonna limit how
much we can cooperate.
LEWIS: We do.
We are just hoping that
you will use the sway
you have with your website to
help us in our investigation.
How do you know
there is a killer?
I haven't seen anything
about it in the papers.
Well. you wouldn't. We
don't normally share
the details of an
ongoing investigation
with general public
unless. of course.
it can help with
our investigation.
We are not accusing
anyone of any wrongdoing.
We are just asking
for your assistance.
LEWIS: This unknown
subject is methodical.
- very dangerous and...
- JJ: Okay.
Here we go.
Now we look for their
micro-expressions.
See what these guys give away
without realizing
they're giving it away.
Won't this crowd have a
better poker face than that?
You can't control an involuntary
response from the amygdala.
No matter how good you
think you are at bluffing.
- (typing)
- Don't ask.
- Now I have to.
- I just said don't ask.
Okay. If they stick to form.
they'll start with
a loud denial.
Most likely from
a previously agreed-upon
spokesperson. Him.
- Dapper white dude. front row?
- Yep.
Ooh. I got him!
LEWIS: ...victims.
Well. we are one of the most
popular vacation search
sites after Google.
We can't control that.
Well. we're hoping
you'll give us a list
of your employees and
third party brokers
- who access your data.
- (chuckles) Absolutely not.
We don't sell our data.
The company's very
clear about that
in its terms of service.
Could be a breach.
There are no breaches.
That you can admit to publicly.
But we assure you
that any help you
can give us will stay
confidential.
We're not cooperating
any further.
All right. Tara.
That's enough good cop.
Let's cut to the chase.
Your website's business
model isn't based
on getting people into rentals.
It's based on selling out anyone
who taps that "accept
cookies" button.
Someone is exploiting that
to kill innocent men and women.
Front row. right side.
Who's that?
GARCIA: Richard Downey.
Why?
He looked down when
she said "kill."
Companies pay big
money for your users.
We have accepted that as a
part of the digital economy.
But what we don't accept
is you treating five
victims as acceptable losses
so you could make your
quarterly earnings.
And we think that their murders
- are worth more than your 401K.
- LEWIS: With all due respect.
their murders are more
important than your 401K.
GREEN: That looks
involuntary to me.
- What's he hiding?
- I don't know.
What I can tell you is
that Downey got his MBA
at Stanford after serving
three tours of duty in Iraq.
- Back to back?
- Yes indeedy.
I still got my dog tags.
You got yours?
Yes indeedy.
(pop music playing on speakers)
Hey.
So. how is this for a
birthday that ends in zero?
I mean. this is... speechless.
Like. "take my breath
away" speechless.
How did you even
find this place?
I looked up "perfect
sunset getaways."
- and this came up.
- Well. it is perfect.
- (laughs)
- DAUGHTER: No.
- This is perfect.
- Oh. no. no.
- It's not time for gifts yet.
- No. it's okay.
Just open it.
MAN: Ah.
Thanks?
Turn it over.
- Ta-da!
- (laughing)
"Here's to your
liver"? Come on.
I'm not that much
of a lush. am I?
- No...
- Well. only on your birthday.
- when it's allowed.
- MAN: I don't know.
Oh. wait! Selfie time?
- Yeah. yeah. yeah!
- Honey. no. no. no. I look terrible.
No. no. no. you look great.
plus I want to remember this.
- Okay.
- Come on.
Oh. wait. Dad. tuck
in. get closer.
Okay. all right.
where am I looking?
You're looking at the
pinhole on the right.
- It's the same place it always is.
- (laughing): All right.
- Okay. smile.
- Okay.
And smile.
- Take lots. take a bunch.
- I am. I am.
Okay. and...
WOMAN: All right. let me see.
I get veto power.
DAUGHTER: Okay.
Mom. you look great.
WOMAN: Okay.
MAN: Oh. these are awesome.
WOMAN: These are kind of cute.
(gasps)
What the hell is this?
Mr. Downey. I'm SSA
Alvez with the FBI.
This is Agent Green.
We just have a few follow-up
questions we wanted to ask
you about the drowning case.
Am I under arrest?
- No.
- Then why am I here?
'Cause we already told you no.
So you guys served. so what?
ALVEZ: We know that you're
being pulled in two different
directions right now.
Look. on one hand.
you're an employee.
GREEN: On the other.
you swore an oath
to protect the Constitution
against all enemies
foreign and domestic.
ALVEZ: All we're
trying to do is stop
one of those enemies.
Okay? Someone who is using
your website against you.
Even if I wanted to. I couldn't.
GREEN: Yes. you can.
We'll tell you how to open up
a back door to the site.
We can do the rest.
That won't work.
IT will flag it.
they'll know it's me.
And spoiler alert.
my company is not a big
fan of whistleblowers.
GARCIA: Well...
that's where I come in.
DAUGHTER: Dad. what
choice do we have?
MAN: Hey. hey. hey. hey.
Shh. shh. shh.
No. okay? This
is not happening.
Do you understand? It's not.
- Dad. he-he...
- It's not!
If we do this. we're dead.
UNSUB: I said get in.
WOMAN: I trust you.
No.
No. I'm not gonna
let you do this...
(screams)
(gasping)
(panting)
Okay. Get in.
- Just get in. Just get in.
- DAUGHTER: Okay.
Okay. Wait. W-Wait.
What about Dad?
It's gonna be
okay. Just do it.
Uh. okay. Okay.
WOMAN It's gonna be okay.
DAUGHTER: But Dad.
But Dad's right there.
- (whimpering)
- (water splashing)
(gasps)
(groans) All right.
Oh. I can't... I can't
touch the bottom.
Neither can I.
(groaning. panting)
I can't touch it anywhere.
- (daughter panting)
- Move.
Vivian. take off your clothes.
anything that's
gonna weigh you down.
(grunts)
(both panting)
It's okay.
Gonna be okay.
- Just trust me.
- Okay.
(Vivian grunting)
Oh. is this what
you want? You creep!
Stop. Stop talking.
Why?
'Cause we're gonna
need our energy.
All of it.
Agent Ivan needs to
get back to us. and...
Give me a minute.
(sighs) You want to play a
real-life game of Clue with me?
Why do I feel like
you've already won?
- Maybe.
- I'll start.
Professor Voit in the
laundry room with a...
Shank made from the
wired cover of a fan.
- What in the world?
- A weapon
that Voit made to fight
off his attackers.
- How'd you know?
- He told me.
I got stuff. I got
filtered water.
got a fan.
But how did you find it?
Every washing machine has
a drain pan underneath it.
Based on where the
guards found Voit's body.
there was only one place
he could have hidden it.
PRENTISS: So now we know
how he fought them off.
But how did he know
they were coming?
He was in a
minimum-security prison.
Those two weren't killers.
I checked their records.
They were gonna be
in there for a while.
- So they were enticed?
- Yeah.
Okay. but Voit wasn't
in there as Voit.
He was registered under
his birth name. Lee Duval.
Well. someone let the
cat out of the bag.
So. besides us.
who knew Voit was Voit?
- You. Freeze.
- Moi?
What is this that
I hear about you
sitting bedside with Voit?
- It's nothing.
- It's something.
I mean. what. are you
reading him a bedtime story?
No. Come here.
- (door closes)
- Okay.
- (chuckles)
- So.
do you remember the last time
we were in the field with Voit.
and I had to stop him and
Tyler from killing each other?
I remember you taking
off your glasses.
- How I knew you were serious.
- Right.
So I looked in his eyes.
And I mean. I went deep
in there. and I saw...
...stuff.
What?
A soul.
- (scoffs) Oh. all right. come on.
- No. I...
I know. I know.
He-He's a psychopath.
All I can do is
tell you what I saw.
and I saw an ember of something.
Okay.
Yeah. I don't see
anything. all right?
But I believe that
you believe it.
Thank you.
Here's what I want to know.
What do you get from
sitting next to him now?
I'm hoping...
I can see something
salvageable in him.
(scoffs)
You know. I never got heartburn
before I met you. Never.
It's my freakish empathy.
It's giving you the heebies.
But I can stave off the jeebies
because I have done some
good work on this case.
- May I?
- Ah.
So. that mole we got
from the website?
I got the user data
of our victims.
All of them.
Including the two
that we couldn't ID?
Yeah. including them. This is
Mila Stevens and Joel Tanner.
They were the missing people
that most closely match
what little the local
police could give us.
All right. Where are they on the
timeline with the other victims?
GARCIA: Numbers one and two.
ALVEZ: Okay. Where are
they originally from?
Chesapeake. Virginia.
both of them.
All right. first victims
always tell us the most
because the unsub is still
learning. so what did he learn?
Based on this map?
That he should go 100 miles
in a different direction
- to find his next victim.
- All right.
so maybe after Mila and Joel.
he stopped making
the rookie mistake
of hunting in his own backyard.
If he lives in or
around Chesapeake.
that could be where his pool is.
Chesapeake. custom
pools. seven feet. On it.
All right. now can you do more
than one search at a time?
Ooh. science says
asking a dumb question
makes you less cute.
Uh. yes. I can.
All right. um. look.
whatever made this
guy start killing
in this way might have
happened in Chesapeake. too.
So. let's-let's look at.
um. some water-based trauma.
Drowning. treading water.
Check lifeguard incident
reports in the area.
Double quest. Here we go.
Oh. (laughs)
It's like my heartburn has
just magically gone away.
Yeah. I'm a healer. that's why.
- You are. You are.
- (laughs)
(water lapping)
(unsub coughs)
(wheezing)
(groans softly)
(both gasping)
Oh. What do we do?
What do we do? What do we do?
WOMAN: Just. um. try...
Just. um... just float.
- What?
- Okay? Like this. Just...
Just float. Just float.
Just float.
- (mechanical whirring)
- What?
- (mumbling)
- Oh. my God. Oh.
- Please. No. please. please don't do this.
- No.
Pl... Hey.
- (unsub grunting)
- VIVIAN: What... No. no. no. no.
- You don't have to do this. Please.
- No. please. Please. Oh.
No.
(both gasping. whimpering)
- Mom. what do we do?
- Um... um...
- What do we do?
- Just. uh...
Get under it.
- Come on. just get under it.
- Okay.
- Okay?
(Vivian gasps)
VIVIAN: What do we do?
You don't have to do this!
(whimpering)
(both panting)
Is there anything you can grab?
Oh. Uh...
No. No.
- The walls?
- No. I tried.
There's nothing to hold on to.
I don't want to die.
Hey. look at me.
- Hey.
- No. I don't... I don't want...
You're not gonna die.
- (gasps)
- You're not.
All right.
Okay?
(slowly exhales)
- (panting)
- Slow it down.
Good. That's it.
(exhales slowly)
Curtis. Kristi and Vivian Estes.
Reported missing by Curtis' mom
when they didn't return
home from a birthday party.
And we're sure
- this is our unsub?
- GREEN: Well. geographically. it fits.
They were taken from a
beach off Chesapeake.
(sighs) That's a
huge escalation.
Why would he take
a whole family?
We might have an answer to that.
LEWIS: Meet the Fowler family.
Fifteen years ago. mother.
father and daughter
were found drowned
under their pool tarp.
The only suspect was
their son Franklin.
He was ten at the time.
JJ: Wait. so you're saying
- he killed his own family?
- Well. the cops
couldn't prove it at the
time. but Dad was a lifeguard
and Franklin couldn't
pass his swimming test.
You don't kill your whole
family over a swimming test.
ALVEZ: You do if you
suffer from asthma
and your dad's a drunk
that makes you take it
- over and over and over.
- JJ: Okay. so.
up till now. the
unsub was disciplined.
- He varied his victimology.
- Till he saw the Estes.
They reminded him
of his own family.
We have an address?
LEWIS: It's an isolated property
close to the county line.
- in Chesapeake.
- ALVEZ: All right.
Let's get ready to roll.
You too. Come on.
(panting)
Mom. I'm... I'm getting tired.
I don't know how
much longer I can...
I know. I know.
Okay.
Let's. uh...
I'm gonna try to...
Mom... (grunts) You
can't do that forever.
(straining)
(shuddering breath. cries)
- What is it?
- It's nothing.
- Nothing. I'm okay.
- Hey. just look at me.
- Hang onto me.
- (coughs)
I got you. I got you.
(elevator bell dings)
Hey. hey. I found zoning permits
on Franklin Fowler's property.
Last year he installed
a seven-foot pool.
That's definitely
our unsub. Let's go.
Any way I could trade
up to a real gun?
ALL: No.
I can't. I can't do it anymore.
That's okay. Just
take a break.
Do you want me to...
- I can go down. I can take a turn.
- No. No.
It'll just tire us out faster.
I can almost...
If I could just hold...
hold on to something.
Hang on. Hang on a second.
Here. try this.
(coughing)
Come on. Come on.
Oh. it's working. All
right. just hang on to me.
You guys take the house.
We'll go in the back.
Dive!
Shots fired!
(indistinct radio chatter)
(Kristi groans)
(moans)
Franklin Fowler.
drop the weapon!
Don't do it.
Shoot me. how you
gonna save them?
Without this.
Or maybe...
that was the plan all along.
Good luck.
- VIVIAN: Help!
- Just hang on!
VIVIAN: My mom's been shot.
- We're trying!
- Right there.
- VIVIAN: Help!
- Cut it!
- Just cut it!
- VIVIAN: Help!
Hang on.
We're coming.
Hang on!
Move!
Go!
- (coughing)
- GREEN: I got her.
- You got her?
- I got you.
- VIVIAN: My mom...
GREEN: I got you.
You're okay.
♪ ♪
I can't.
- (whirring)
- EMT: Clear.
(thump)
- (indistinct chatter)
- (siren wailing in distance)
(chuckles) Mommy.
(chuckles)
We got her back.
She's gonna be okay.
EMT: All right. Coming
through. please.
All right. Hey. nice work.
Thanks. man. You too.
- (phone chimes)
- Oh.
Who-Whose is that?
- Not me.
- Uh. it's mine.
Oh. wow.
- What is it?
- I got my field assignment. - Hey.
Anchorage?
No. Mobile. Alabama.
- ALVEZ: All right.
- Huh. That's not bad.
It's not. I just. uh...
I guess I don't want
to leave the BAU.
Aw. Well...
- It's not forever.
- (sighs) No.
It's just five years. right?
Mm... Mm.
Right?
It's five years until
you make the jump
to supervisory special agent.
And then ten years until
you can join the BAU.
Ten?
Yeah. It's. uh. it's ten.
(chuckles) Sorry. champ.
Good knowing you. rookie.
Only a decade.
Ten.
(knocking)
- Come in.
- (door opens)
So...
...no luck on who knew Voit
was in minimum security.
Let me tell you this.
finding his weapon
earned me some
good will with OPR.
That doesn't mean
you didn't do it.
You know. that agent
who's been on my ass
- has made that same point.
- (chuckles) Yes.
it sounds like classic
internal affairs strategy.
Give you just enough
rope to hang yourself.
Yeah. well. I get to show up
for work tomorrow. but I'm
- good with that.
- Good.
Because we need you.
We have a new problem.
Now what?
Our drowning unsub
said something weird
before he killed himself.
That this was "part of
the plan" all along.
Yeah. I read that
in Tyler's report.
Well. when the techs finished
the sweep of his phone.
they found that he took video
of all of the
victims he drowned.
Now. maybe. if we're lucky.
that's what he meant by "plan."
So why do I feel
we're not that lucky?
He uploaded the videos
to a private VPN cloud.
And he used some of the same
technology that Voit used
to build his network.
- All right. here we go.
- Okay. hang on.
Don't start talking to
people who aren't there.
What we have so far
is circumstantial.
It's just that the
encrypted codec he used...
- What the hell is codec?
- Uh...
it's the software
for compressing
and decompressing
large amounts of data.
Terrorists use it. Uh.
WikiLeaks. they use it.
It's-it's widely available.
You buy that?
All I'm saying is there are
a lot of other explanations
and we need to rule them out
before we can assume that
Voit's a part of this somehow.
Yeah. but we both know Voit.
So. do you buy what
you're selling?
No.
(monitor beeping steadily)
Oops. oops. excuse me.
- Do you mind getting that door?
- No.
- Thank you.
- Not at all.
(door closes)
(monitor continues beeping)
(machine whirring)
(alarm blaring)